Now let's summarize.
What does leadership mean to you now?
So you have learned that it is not just leading people to a common goal,
which is important and great, of course,
but more importantly it is how you are leading them.
Do they feel like they accomplish something and feel empowered,
and if so, you've done your job well.
Connect, change, motivate.
We discussed first what you thought leadership meant,
then we reviewed two quotes from great leaders,
and analyzed the words and discovered that the key action words or
phrases boiled down to connecting with people,
being change agents, and inspiring long-lasting motivation.
That is a great cheat sheet for you.
Keep that by your side.
When you drive to work tomorrow, ask yourself, are you connecting with others?
Are you enabling change and do you inspire motivation?
Follow the leader.
It's not a game anymore.
We discussed several key attributes of a leader.
Trust, compassion, stability,
and hope were all essential elements to encourage your
team to follow you and that trust, in my humble opinion,
is the most important.
Leadership qualities.
In addition to the qualities we've just already mentioned,
you will need credibility, negotiating skills,
planning, management skills, and strong communication skills.
I'm going to really emphasize those communication
skills in the next couple modules,
for verbal communication skills and writing communication skills.
On a leap of faith,
we discuss that you transition from software engineer to leader requires
you to realize that your success is all about growing others and one
method of doing this is through delegation,
because through delegation you are instilling trust and giving your team
a greater sense of responsibility and empowerment.
These are more complex, long-lasting motivation factors.
Align to the business.
Understand the broader business goals of your company or organization.
Determine how your work and projects align to the business goals.
That's a motivating factor for people.
Knowing they're contributing to the business.
And you also want to identify who your customers are and how they would benefit.
This is your first step in setting the direction of your team.
Then there are your daily work tasks and you'll want them aligned as well.
So for each project, list the features or tasks required to fulfill the project,
include your priorities and estimated hours.
This is performed at a reasonably high level of granularity.
This allows your team to feel more empowered and gives them room to be creative.
Motivating your team.
Lots of things may motivate your team,
some of which may be they like to learn new things,
they want to be creative, they want to have a voice,
they want to be recognized for their hard work and they want to build something,
do something that matters.
And lastly, you.
They want you to be their leader.
Okay, now let's move on to the next module,
Let's Talk, which is all about improving your verbal and interpersonal skills.
I'm excited to share that one with you as well. See you on the other side.